Here are the answers to the CSC1011 multiple-choice test based on standard Operating Systems concepts and Linux/Unix command-line principles:

Typing the command man man > man does what?

    Stores the manual page for "man" in a file with a terrible filename.
    (It redirects the text of the manual page into a newly created text file literally called "man", which is valid but confusing).

Linux dominates supercomputers and other specialist computer niches because:

    Open source Linux can be customised to unusual hardware.

The user's program has started. The OS needs to change what memory locations things map to, but binding is done at load-time. Why is it not practical for the OS to say to the user: "Please reload your program so I can re-do the binding":

    The user will not understand this message.
    (Most users do not understand memory management or "binding", so exposing this abstraction is bad OS design).

Task Manager on Windows shows 40% of memory marked "In Use", 40% of memory marked "Standby", 1% of memory marked "Free", and the rest in other categories. What is going on?

    41% of memory is really free.
    (Standby memory is used as a cache to speed things up, but the OS will instantly release it if a program needs RAM. Therefore, Standby + Free = available memory).

A Unix or Linux install will have a large number of commands, each with many options. How do command-line users remember all these commands and options?

    They don't.
    (Users rely on man pages, the --help flag, and internet searches; they only memorize the subset they use frequently).

On a multi-user system, when one user's program divides by zero:

    An interrupt is generated and the program is terminated.
    (This causes a hardware exception/trap. The OS catches it and kills the offending process without affecting other users).

Which of the following fails to find lines containing "Scotland" in a group of files?

    grep scotland *html
    (Because grep is case-sensitive by default, searching for lowercase "scotland" will fail to find "Scotland").

When we run multiple programs at the same time, we need:

    Memory protection.
    (To ensure one program does not accidentally or maliciously overwrite the data of another program).

This command: sed -e 's|<|\&lt;|g'

    is displaying the start of HTML tags but not getting them interpreted.
    (It converts the < character into the HTML entity &lt;, forcing the browser to render it as literal text rather than treating it as code).

I am in the directory /stuff/and/things and I type: cd ../../../more/things - What directory am I in now?

    /more/things
    (The first .. goes to and, the second goes to stuff, the third goes to the root /. Then it navigates into /more/things).

This character should be avoided in Unix filenames:

    * (star)
    (Because it is a wildcard character used by the shell for globbing. Having it in a filename causes immense command-line confusion).

With compile-time binding, the memory locations used can be changed if the program is re-compiled. Why does the OS not do this?

    The source code may not be available.
    (The OS only has the compiled binary executable; you need the original source code to re-compile).

Which of the following does not take you to your home directory?

    cd .
    (The . represents the current directory, so this command does nothing. All the others resolve to the home directory).

If we have to remove a page from memory, what do we do?

    Sometimes write it to disk, sometimes discard it completely.
    (If the page was modified, it must be written to disk. If it is read-only code that hasn't changed, it can be discarded since a copy already exists on the disk).

We are searching for text in chapters of a book, called names like chap17.html. One of these is definitely not right:

    grep Scotland \*chap*html
    (The backslash escapes the first star, meaning the command will literally look for a file whose name starts with an asterisk character).

A user tries to start a program on a single-user, multiple-process system. Why is it not practical for the OS to say to the user: "I'm sorry, another program is occupying memory space 7000-8000. Please terminate the other program before running your program"

    The user will not understand this message.

As a result of the "unused RAM is wasted RAM" idea, we may:

    Keep data from terminated processes in memory. And pre-load processes that may be run later.

You write a simple program in the interpreted UNIX scripting language Shell. You then want to run the program on a different type of machine (different chip, but still running UNIX). Which is normally true:

    It should run without change.
    (Interpreted scripts are independent of the hardware architecture, provided the target system has the correct interpreter).

One of the following file protections will break your web page:

    -rwxr-x--x
    (The last three characters --x mean that "others/world" only have execute permissions, but no read permissions. A web server needs to read an HTML file to serve it).

In my Shakespeare directory, you want to count on how many lines the string "King" appears in Shakespeare. Which of the following will answer that question?

    grep King */act* | wc -l
    (grep outputs every matching line, and piping it to wc -l counts the total number of those lines).

When a program is started:

    A copy of it is made in a volatile medium.
    (It is copied from the non-volatile disk into volatile RAM).

How does the OS protect threads from each other?

    Threads should not be protected from each other.
    (By definition, threads within the same process are designed to share the exact same memory space).

Swapping a process or part of a process to disk works with:

    Run-time binding only.
    (If a process is swapped out, it will likely be placed in a different physical memory location when it is swapped back in, requiring run-time binding to translate the addresses).

Only one of the following makes any kind of sense as a possible permission field for a UNIX file. Which one?

    -r--------
    (This gives read permission to the owner, and restricts access for everyone else. This is a very common permission for private files like SSH keys. The others give permissions to "others" or "groups" that the owner themselves lack).

One of these is true.

    A command-line system is easier to automate than a GUI system.
